Commenting pickles (#13386)
MinaProtocol/mina: src/lib/pickles/README.md

# Pickles - a modular typed inductive proof system

Pickles is a framework that provides an interface for writing SNARK circuits as
inductive rules, backed by a co-recursive kimchi verifier operating over the
Pallas and Vesta curves.

It is currently implemented to work with the polynomial IOP
[PLONK](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953.pdf) and the recursion layer
[Halo](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1021.pdf), generally called
[Halo2](https://electriccoin.co/blog/explaining-halo-2/).
It also provides an abstraction to deal with lookup arguments compatible with

> PLONK and might provide in the future custom gates operations.

Author: Updated. I should rephrase it. Not fully happy atm.

Pickles aims to be modular using the OCaml module system. Ideally, an inductive proof
system can be parametrized by any finite field and 2-cycle of curves (called
`Tick` and `Tock`). However, at the moment, it is hardcoded to be used with
Pasta and Vesta curves. The code refers to the algebraic parameters as `Impls`
and are passed to generic functions as a first class module.

A particularity of Pickles is to use the power of the OCaml type system to
encode runtime invariants like vector sizes, heteregenous list and others at
the type level to avoid constructing some statements that might be wrong at

> compile time. Some encoded theories can be found in

Author: :)

# Pickles - a modular typed inductive proof system

Pickles is a framework that provides an interface for writing SNARK circuits as
inductive rules, backed by a co-recursive kimchi verifier operating over the
Pallas and Vesta curves.

It is currently implemented to work with the polynomial IOP
[PLONK](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953.pdf) and the recursion layer
[Halo](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1021.pdf), generally called
[Halo2](https://electriccoin.co/blog/explaining-halo-2/).
It also provides an abstraction to deal with lookup arguments and custom gates compatible with PLONK.

Pickles aims to be modular using the OCaml module system. Ideally, an inductive proof
system can be parametrized by any finite field and 2-cycle of curves (called
`Tick` and `Tock`). However, at the moment, it is hardcoded to be used with
Pasta and Vesta curves. The code refers to the algebraic parameters as `Impls`
and are passed to generic functions as a first class module.

A particularity of Pickles is to use the power of the OCaml type system to

> encode runtime invariants like vector sizes, heteregenous list and others at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encode runtime invariants like vector sizes, heterogeneous lists and others at
```

the type level to avoid constructing some statements that might be wrong at
compile time. Some encoded theories can be found in
[`Pickles_types`](pickles_types).

> Some types are paremetrized by type-level defined naturals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some types are parametrized by type-level defined naturals.
```

## Coding guidelines

> Functions related to computations are parametrised by at least two types,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functions related to computations are parametrized by at least two types,
```
Use of the American spelling for homogeneity

suffixed respectively with `var` and `val`, which represent `in circuit` values
and `out circuit` values. The type `[('var, 'val) t]` describes a mapping from
the OCaml type `['val]` to a type representing the value using PlonK variables
(`['var]`).

> Each in-circuit encoded values have a corresponding `'a Typ.t` value, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each in-circuit encoded value has a corresponding `'a Typ.t` value, which
```

carries the in-circuit values, out-circuit values and the related circuit
constraints.

> A nested module `Constant` should be defined to encode the out-circuit values

Reviewer: Why "should"? Do we "need to"? or even must? Or is it something that is not enforced but that is "nice to have"?

Author: I changed to must. I hope I am not wrong.
